While designing documents in MongoDB,
one of the key considerations for the structure of your documents is
the decision to embed documents or to use references.
MongoDB allows you to embed related data in the same document.
In general, use embedded data models when you
have a contains relationship between entities.
In this customer document,
the address sub document is embedded in the customer document.
This feels more natural since customer information typically includes an address.
You can also use embedded document when
there is a one-to-many relationship between entities.
In these relationships, the many or the child documents
always appear within the context of the parent documents.
In the patient record, for example,
a patient can have many visits to the clinic.
The visit document has no meaning when it's not associated with a patient,
therefore, it is embedded within the patient document.
Embedded model allows for a better read performance
since all the related data can be read in one go.
References can also be used to describe relationship between documents.
In general, use references when embedding would result in
duplication of data but would not affect read performance significantly.
References can also be used to represent more complex many-to-many relationships.
References provide more flexibility than embedding,
but applications need to issue follow up queries to resolve the references.
In other words, references require more round trips to the server.
Embedded data models make it possible to update
related data in a single atomic write operation.
In MongoDB , a write operation is atomic on the level of a single document,
even if the operation modifies multiple embedded documents within the single document.
As soon as you start introducing references,
it is up to the application to maintain the integrity of the related documents.